[MUSIC]
It's, I guess,
Computer Sciences attempt to mimic real,
the neurons,
in how our brain actually functions.
So 20-23 years ago, a neural network would
have some inputs that would come in.
They would be fed into different
processing nodes that would
then do some transformation on them and
aggregate them or
something, and
then maybe go to another level of nodes.
And finally there would some output would
come out, and I can remember training
a neural network to recognize digits,
handwritten digits and stuff.
So a neural network is
trying to use computer,
a computer program that
will mimic how neurons,
how our brains use neurons to process
thing, neurons and synapses and
building these complex
networks that can be trained.
So this neural network starts
out with some inputs and
some outputs, and you keep feeding
these inputs in to try to see
what kinds of transformations
will get to these outputs.
And you keep doing this over,
and over, and
over again in a way that this
network should converge.
So these input, the transformations
will eventually get these outputs.
Problem with neural networks was that even
though the theory was there and they did
work on small problems like recognizing
handwritten digits and things like that.
They were computationally
very intensive and so
they went out of favor and I stopped
teaching them probably 15 years ago.
And then all of a sudden we started
hearing about deep learning,
heard the term deep learning.
This is another term,
when did you first hear it?
Four years ago, five years ago?
And so, I finally said,
what the hell is deep learning?
It's really doing all this great stuff,
what is it?
And I Google, I was like,
this is neural networks on steroids.
What they did was they just had
multiple layers of neural networks, and
they use lots, and lots, and
lots of computing power to solve them.
Just before this interview, I had
a young faculty member in the marketing
department whose research is
partially based on deep learning.
And so she needs a computer that has
a Graphics Processing Unit in it,
because it takes enormous amount of
matrix and linear algebra calculations
to actually do all of the mathematics
that you need in neural networks.
But they've been they
are now quite capable.
We now have neural networks and
deep learning that can recognize speech,
can recognize people, you got there,
getting your face recognized.
I guarantee that NSA has a lot of
work going on in neural networks.
The university right now,
as director of research computing,
I have some small set of machines
down at our south data center,
and I went in there last week and
there were just piles, and piles, and
piles of cardboard boxes all from
Dell with a GPU on the side.
Well, the GPU is
a Graphics Processing Unit.
There's only one application
in this University that needs
two hundred servers each with
Graphics Processing Units in it, and
each Graphics Processing Unit, it has like
the equivalent of 600 cores of processing.
So this is tens of thousands of
processing cores that is for
deep learning, I guarantee.
Some of the first ones
are speech recognition,
who teaches the deep
learning class at NYU, and
is also the head data scientist
at Facebook comes into
class with a notebook, and
it's a pretty thick notebook.
It looks a little odd,
because it's like this and
it's that thick because it has a couple
of Graphics Processing Units in it, and
then he will ask the class to
start to speak to this thing.
And it will train while he's in class,
he will train a neural
network to recognize speech.
So recognizing speech, recognizing people,
images, classifying images, almost all of
the the traditional tasks that neural nets
used to work on in little tiny things.
Now, they can do really,
really, really large things.
It will learn on its own,
the difference between a cat and a dog,
and different kinds of objects,
it doesn't have to be taught.
It doesn't,
it just learns that's why they call it
deep learning, and if you hear,
he plays this, if you hear how it
recognizes speech and generate speech.
It sounds like a baby
who learning to talk.
You can just, you're like really do about
all of a sudden this stupid machine is
talking to you and learned how to talk.
That's cool.
I need to learn some linear algebra,
a lot of this a lot of this stuff is
based on matrix and linear algebra.
So you need to know how to do use
linear algebra do transformations.
Now, on the other hand, there's now lots
of packages out there that will do deep
learning and they'll do all
the linear algebra for you, but
you should have some idea of
what is happening underneath.
Deep learning, particularly needs really
high-powered computational power.
So it's not something that you're going to
go out and do on your notebook for it.
You could play with it.
But if you really want to do it,
seriously,
you have to have some special
computational resources.
[MUSIC]